---
title: Profile
category: local
---

# About Me

I was born and raised in rural Minnesota, about an hour southwest of the Twin
Cities. I’ve always displayed a natural thirst for knowledge, especially about
music, mathematics, and computing, and my parents encouraged the pursuit of
education both in and out of the classroom. Living in the country provided
opportunities to learn about carpentry (my dad was a hobbyist cabinetmaker, and
we also had to do a ***lot*** of upkeep on the property) and the outdoors with
the Boy Scouts.

My family moved to Michigan in 2005. I completed my Eagle Service Project in
2008, which reintroduced bluebirds to my local county for the first time in over
twenty years. I attended Trine University, originally as a Mechanical Engineer.
When I realized I was much more passionate about the programming and machine
control than by the finished products, I switched to Computer Engineering. My
Senior Design project, the construction and programming of a large autonomous
vehicle, involved my skills in both disciplines.

In addition to my academic and technical pursuits, I also greatly enjoy music
and aquatics. I began learning piano when I was six, and added the trumpet and
French horn in middle and high school, respectively. I’ve played in my school
bands for ten years and would like to continue in a community orchestra wherever
I wind up. I have been a strong swimmer all my life, and became a Red Cross
lifeguard at 14. My passion for aquatic safety has led me to become a BSA
lifeguard and PADI Rescue Diver, and I have employed these skills as the
aquatics director at a local Boy Scout camp. During my tenure at Rota-Kiwan, I
received excellent reviews and maintained a strong safety record.

I am deeply passionate about achieving safety in risky environments through
familiarity, competence, and assistance. I aim to make delivery of such safety
benefits a primary goal of my career and personal life.

# Career Goals

I have interests across the spectrum of software engineering, and am capable of
working in diverse scopes and environments. I would most like to work in systems
programming on autonomous vehicles. My Senior Design project, a self-navigating
cargo hauler, gave me experience in both the mechanical and software aspects of
such projects and is something I would absolutely love to continue doing.

I plan to gain experience in autonomous vehicle design and programming, and work
on a submersible drone. My goal is for it to behave similarly to the aerial
drones popular today, and provide material and informational support to dive
teams.
